In this lecture we will be learning about the purpose and implementation of the health check API which
we have discussed in previous lectures.
The magic API is a route that should be available on services that expose an API endpoint this route
can be created to update the service status.
The standard response schools that are generally used are two hundred.
OK.
If the service is healthy and the five hundred response code if the service is in an air state however
custom responses can also be added if you'd like to include more information to the consumers of the
head check API.
The health check API is usually called frequently by services such as the service registry to check
if the service is still available to direct traffic to it.
As we discussed in the earlier lectures it is also commonly used by monitoring services in order to
raise alerts if the service is created are in an unhealthy state.
As the head of the API is something that will behave similarly across all services and should be included
in all micro services exposing an API endpoint.
It is a good candidate for a model to be included in the Microcircuits template.